---
title: Network map
subtitle: Visualising the relationships
layout: default
modal-id: 2
img: map-loggedout.png
thumbnail: map-loggedout-thumbnail.png
alt: polinode screenshot with Shirley entry selected
last-updated: November 2019

---

***
#### [Explore Shirley's Family History Map](https://app.polinode.com/networks/explore/5d74c5e2140abb00136833a0/5d9320eb22c49000130f0db6)
***

Some instructions on using this **interactive** map:
##### To move around the map...
* Click and drag with your mouse or use the arrow keys on your keyboard.
* To zoom in and out, use the scroll wheel on your mouse if you have one, or press the up and down arrows on your keyboard together with the spacebar (ie, zoom in = up arrow + spacebar, zoom out = down arrow + spacebar). 
* To zoom out completely, and see the whole map at once, press s on your keyboard.
##### To locate a person...
* Use the search box in the right hand panel to find them by name. Because *living people are partly de-identified* (only the initial of their first name is present), you may need to search by family name.
* When a person is selected on the map, the other people they're connected to will also be highlighted; for a list of these people, click on the Edges tab in the right hand panel.
##### Understanding shapes...
* This digital version of the map uses round dots for women while square dots indicate a man; where a person's gender is unknown, a diamond shape is used.
* Like with the poster version, larger dots indicate a person with many relationships.

---

### About This Map

This map was created to show all the people present in Shirley's database, both in one view, and in relation to Shirley herself; at the same time it demonstrates the scale of Shirley's research.

The map is a type called an actor-network diagram. Actor-network diagrams are often used in [social network analysis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_network_analysis) and are based on the [actor-network theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Actor%E2%80%93network_theory) of academic sociology. In these diagrams a set of people (*actors*) are displayed as a group, which is organised according to how they connect or relate to each other (in a *network*).

This format was chosen instead of the traditional [family tree](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Family_tree) or [pedigree chart](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pedigree_chart) because trees tend to emphasise horizontal sibling relationships, and as a result, 'go wide' very quickly. In this case, with so many thousands of people involved, a traditional tree would be huge and unreadable.

As far as we know, using an actor-network diagram to display family history research is a first.

### Data

The map was drawn using data from Shirley's database. 

Firstly, data was exported to some simple text-based files (csv) using Gramps, the program that also produced the online database. The data was then tidied, for instance so that dates were written in a standard format, from which a century of birth could be identified; the cleaning and analysing process took several months. The data was then organised into a list of people (*actors*, aka *nodes*) and a list of all connections between two people (called *edges*) for creating the *network*. 

After some research into map types and software options, the Australian platform [Polinode](https://polinode.com/) was chosen. Polinode produces beautiful maps and is easily accessible because it's cloud based. 

### Layout

Polinode comes with sophisticated layout options that group parts of the network into clusters, according to the various connections (*edges*) present between each person (*node*). 

Achieving the layout used in the poster took time and experimentation. The layout options, especially force directed, almost immediately assemble nodes into loose groups, but a perfect arrangement can take a long time to run; the layout used in the poster took about 12 hours altogether. This is partly because there's so much data to compute, but also because the data starts off scattered randomly.

*To apply a new layout to the map, click on Layout in the left hand panel, then choose 'Force directed' from the drop-down list in the bottom panel, then click the Start button. Note, your layout will not save; if you want to keep a copy of your results, try one or more of the Export options in the left hand panel. For more information, there are [tutorial videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g2IriWIcClk&list=PLrpL4N9n4AK51KKGWSjMYZ3B4pz91j82W) and [documentation](https://docs.polinode.com/) provided by Polinode.* 

### Colours

Polinode helps distinguish between individuals and groups using different colours and shapes. Polinode is able to show different colours for all 2,119 families identified in Shirley's database. 

When coloured by family name, the map is fascinating but a little overwhelming, and it needs to be interactive to be understandable. For printing on the poster and appreciating Shirley's research at a glance, the variety was reduced to about a dozen 'clan' groups. 

The 'clans' that were assembled for colouring the map are somewhat artificial and idiosyncratic. The goal was to show Shirley's family history in relation to Shirley herself. So the families chosen to 'lead' each 'clan' were firstly ones that directly reflected Shirley's origins, and after that the most numerous families were selected.

***
#### [Explore Shirley's Family History Map](https://app.polinode.com/networks/explore/5d74c5e2140abb00136833a0/5d9320eb22c49000130f0db6)
***


#### A note on privacy

To safeguard the privacy of all living people recorded in the database, who have been included in this map, *all entries without a death date* have been partly de-identified. For each, their first names have been reduced to an initial, and the year of birth has been removed. In addition, only a few other details were uploaded to Polinode as 'attributes' of each person.

We sincerely value the privacy of everyone identified and added to this database during the course of Shirley's research. If there are any oversights, errors or omissions, or if your presence in the data used for this map makes you feel uncomfortable, please tell us immediately via the main contact form. Please also note that the future direction for this data is for it to be transferred to Wikitree, as outlined in the Wikitree section of this website. This decision is partly based to the strength and range of Wikitree's privacy controls.
