---
title: Database
subtitle: Collecting the people
layout: default
modal-id: 1
img: database.png
thumbnail: database-thumbnail.png
alt: database screenshot
last-updated: November 2019

---

***
#### [Explore Shirley's Family History Research Database](database/index.html)
***

Some instructions on using this website version:
* Below the database title is a basic navigation menu with 2 tabs that lead to indexes of names and one tab that will return you to this main website.
* There is no built-in search for the whole database, however you can press Ctl+F on your keyboard to search the text on each page, if you prefer searching instead of scrolling down indexes.
* Links within each record, including in the family tree chart at the bottom, will take you to a range of related records. 
* To see when a particular record was last updated, check the "last change" statement at bottom of that particular page.


---

### About This Database

Over the years, Shirley recorded her research in several databases, using a few different programs. Most programs were ultimately too difficult to use or didn't produce the kind of reports that Shirley sought for publishing her research.

The database reviewed for this project is the most extensive, and has been in use continuously from October 2001 until now.

This database was originally created using the [Personal Ancestral File](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Personal_Ancestral_File) (PAF) software, a popular free program once provided by the Mormon Church. The software was last updated in 2002 and support for it ended in 2013, so another option was needed to future-proof Shirley's research.

### Conversion

The first goal in assessing the database was to find a way to extract the data into a program-independent format that could act as a complementary, searchable index for a digital archive of Shirley's records and artefacts. 

One of the few file export options provided by PAF was the genealogy industry standard format [GEDCOM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GEDCOM). After some research, the open source [Gramps Project](https://gramps-project.org/blog/) was then identified as the best candidate for converting Shirley's data from GEDCOM into other formats. 

### Publication

Further exploration and experimenting with Gramps resulted in finding a built-in publishing option, called a [Narrated Web Site](https://www.gramps-project.org/wiki/index.php/Gramps_5.1_Wiki_Manual_-_Reports_-_part_7#Narrated_Web_Site), that could easily produce a comprehensive and accessible version of the database, complete with indexes and interactive family trees.

The link below (and at the top of this post) opens a website version of Shirley's database, from Gramps, that is intact and up to date, although some details have been obscured for privacy reasons.

***
#### [Explore Shirley's Family History Research Database](database/index.html)
***


#### A note on privacy

To safeguard the privacy of all living people recorded in the database, *all entries without a death date* have been de-identified. For each, their first names have been replaced with the marker *[Living]*, plus birth dates and most notes have been removed; at the same time, connections to other family members have been retained, and identifying remarks may exist in the notes of a deceased person or a life event. 

This way of publishing the data has been adopted to meet the spirit of the European [General Data Protection Regulation](https://gdpr.eu/what-is-gdpr/) (GDPR). [Historical research](https://gdpr.eu/article-89-processing-for-archiving-purposes-scientific-or-historical-research-purposes-or-statistical-purposes/), [archives](https://gdpr.eu/Recital-158-Processing-for-archiving-purposes/) and [genealogical records](https://gdpr.eu/Recital-160-Processing-for-historical-research-purposes/) are a special category of personal information that have been largely exempted from the regulations. Consequently there should not be a legal issue with this publication of Shirley's research.

We sincerely value the privacy of everyone identified and added to this database during the course of Shirley's research, regardless of legal exemptions. If there are any oversights, errors or omissions, or if your presence in this database makes you feel uncomfortable, please tell us immediately via the main contact form. Please also note that the future direction for this data is for it to be transferred to Wikitree, as outlined in the Wikitree section of this website. This decision is partly based to the strength and range of Wikitree's [privacy controls](https://www.wikitree.com/wiki/Help:Privacy).
