---
title: Poster
subtitle: Visualising the relationships
layout: default
modal-id: 3
img: poster.png
thumbnail: poster-thumbnail.png
alt: poster screenshot
last-updated: November 2019

---

***
#### [Explore Shirley's Family History Poster](/img/portfolio/poster-fullsize.png)
***

The link above will open a full size version of the poster. Click the back button to return to the website after opening.

---

### About This Poster

This infographic style poster was created as a display and conversation starter for Shirley's 90th birthday celebration. A framed print was given to Shirley, and copies were also given as gifts to those who attended on the day.

The poster is designed for printing at A1 size.

### Statistics

The left hand side of the poster shows a few key statistics drawn from Shirley's database.

##### How many people?

11,451 is the official number of people, according to the number of entries in the database. Due to some idiosyncrasies in recording some couples and family groups together, however, Shirley actually identified closer to 12,184 people during her research. In addition there are some duplicate entries, numbering less than 100 at this stage, which is pending further investigation. One goal in developing the interactive Polinode map was to improve the identification of unique and duplicate entries.

##### How many families?

2,119 different family names are recorded in the database. There is scope for this number to increase, though, as there are 253 people whose family name is unknown, which amounts to 2% of the total population.

In terms of the size of the families, 963 family names appear just once, and the average family size is fairly small at 5 people. At the other end of the scale though, the Cook, Ashcroft and Irish families each number over 200 individuals. The next most substantial are the Thorntons (134), Braithwaites (130), Dawsons (107), Smalls and Shuttleworths (102 each).

To identify and document the largest families Shirley undertook significant original research, plus often benefited from sharing her research with like-minded family historians, who in turn provided her with results from their research.

##### How many men & women?

The proportion of men and women discovered to date is roughly equal. Men can be easier to trace due to retaining their surnames, so it's not surprising that the majority of people in the database are male. Shirley has commendably recorded the birth name of partners and included both her parents wherever possible, and only 236 could not be identified to the extent of knowing their gender; many of these were children who died in infancy.

##### How long did they live?

Unfortunately birth and death dates are only recorded for a minority of people identified during Shirley's research. This is due to the unavoiable difficulties that emerge in tracing people through incomplete or inaccessible primary source documents.

*Less than 4,000 people (35%) are recorded with a full birth date; a less precise year of birth is recorded for 7,934 people. At the other end of life, a full death date is recorded for 2,626, while the year is known for just over 1,000 more people (3,727 in total).*

For those whose birth and death were recorded, the poster includes a [population pyramid](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Population_pyramid) which demonstrates quite nicely the fact that women tend to live longer than men. It also shows quite clearly that the first decade of life is quite risky, and equally so for boys and girls; closer analysis of Shirley's data reveals that the number of deaths in infancy and middle age (40-59) almost halved in the 20th century, compared with the 19th century. So the demographics of Shirley's database also provides evidence for the dramatic improvement in life expectancy in the 20th century.

##### When did they live?

Shirley's research focussed mainly on fairly recent history: 65% of those whose year or date of birth are known were born in the 19th and 20th centuries. The exact reasons for this concentration are uncertain, but access to records and the relative youth of Australia as a country no doubt significantly influenced the course of Shirley's research.

### Which couples connect the clans?

The people identified by name on the poster were significant for bringing a number of key families together. The list is by no means exhaustive, and in fact omits a range of very important people, who either mark the first recorded members of key families, or clarify how some of the 'clans' are composed. 

Those presented on the poster are not necessarily people who had the most children, or particularly interesting life stories, names or heritage. They are primarily intended to help with navigating and exploring the map. The extent of the list is due to limitations of space on the poster.

### Map

Most of the poster displays a static version of the map, which was drawn using data from Shirley's database; for more information on how it was achieved, see the Map article. 

When coloured by family name, the map is fascinating but a little overwhelming, and it needs to be interactive to be understandable. For printing on the poster and appreciating Shirley's research at a glance, the variety was reduced to about a dozen 'clan' groups. 

The 'clans' that were assembled for colouring the map are somewhat artificial and idiosyncratic. The goal was to show Shirley's family history in relation to Shirley herself. So the families chosen to 'lead' each 'clan' were firstly ones that directly reflected Shirley's origins, and after that the most numerous families were selected.

***
#### [Explore Shirley's Family History Poster](/img/portfolio/poster-fullsize.png)
***


